Title: BADUSB-C: Revisiting BadUSB with Type-C

Track: Mobile

Secondary: Hardware / Embedded

Format: 30 Minute Breifing

Format Delivery: UNDECIDED

Abstract:However, BadUSB lacks a visual feedback channel to perform precise attacks, especially on mobile devices. Because most mobile devices rely on GUI to perform operations, but BadUSB majorly targets CLI. But this is about to be changed by USB Type-C protocol, which provides a DisplayPort over USB-C functionality. With this protocol and some gadgets like a USB Type-C Hub and a video capture card, one can build a powerful offensive tool that can obtain the victim's UI status and inject keystroke simultaneously. We call it BadUSB-C as it is an extension to BadUSB with Type-C protocol.

Presentation Outline
1. Introduction to USB background
- This will introduce a breif history of USB protocol including the latest USB Type-C features and previous attacks like BadUSB.

2. Ideas and realization of BadUSB-C
- This will present the ideas behind BadUSB-C and how to build a BadUSB-C prototype.

3. Real attack scenario
- This will demostrate a real attack scenario where BadUSB-C is disguised as a sharing power bank and steals victim's money.

4. Countermeasures
- This will focus on the countermeasures against BadUSB-C attacks

Have You Previously Presented This Research or Any Portion of This Talk at Another Conference? 
Yes

If yes, provide the conference name, date, location and URL
Name: 15th Workshop On Offensive Technologies (WOOT '21)
Date: May 27, 2021
Location: Virtual
URL: https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/SP2021/SPW2021/WOOT21/

What new research, concept, technique, or approach is included in your submission?
To our best knowledge, this is the first work to utilize new features of USB Type-C. The combination of new support with conventional BadUSB makes attacks more precise and effective.


Takeaways
- USB Type C provides a powerful peripherial without sufficient protection
- BadUSB-C extends BadUSB by providing a real-time visual feedback, which largely enhances its capibility.
- Do not use USB devices especially USB Type-C devices from unknown sources.

If applicable, what problem does your research solve?
N/A

Will you be releasing a new tool? 
Yes

Is this a new vulnerability?
Yes

Does your presentation include a demo? 
Yes

If you are a past Black Hat Briefings speaker, please provide the event year/location of your most recent event.
N/A

So the Review Board is able to get a sense of your presentation style, do you have a video sample of any previous conference presentations?
No

Message for Review Board Only
None

Bio:
Shuqing:
Shuqing Li is a senior undergraduate student at the CSE Department of Southern University of Science and Technology. Her research interests include but are not limited to software analysis, software testing and applying AI approaches to facilitate software engineering research.